# Data-Visualization-on-NFL-Data-using-R-and-Tableau

The ‘NFLVerse’ is a collection of data and R packages, which can be found online at https://nflverse.r-universe.dev , and is intended for NFL (National Football League) analytics. One such package, called ‘nflreadr,’ can be used to extract NFL data from ‘GitHub’ repositories, and contains 17 different vignettes of up to date data. For purposes of my exploration, I focus on the ‘PBP’ (Play by Play) and ‘Player_Stats’ datasets, which both contain columns containing ordinal, nominal, and many statistical numerical variables, and rows representing every player in every game. Separate datasets may be imported ranging from 1999 to 2022. Further details can be found at https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/nflreadr/index.html . 

My exploration provides the average fan a visual look into popular subjects and trends regarding the NFL, both current and over the last 23 years. I begin with a subject of growing interest in the NFL community, fantasy sports, and quarterback trends of the 2022 season, a visual that could be useful for this current season. Next, I take a deep dive into the last full season, 2021, to provide a broad overview of the performance trends. Two visuals will allow the audience to see these trends: first showing the performance of each specific team, then the production in each week of the season. 

After that, I focused on return yards, which is measured by advancing the football towards the opposing team’s goal, to see the pattern that is observed after the rule change that happened in 2011 for kicking (moving the kickoff line from the 30 yard line to the 35 yard line). Next, I looked at the positions for the player because to win a game every player's support is required, everyone has equal importance in a game. But I need to have an idea about the players position group in the game for in depth analysis about the players/game, to win a match. For this I did analysis for position group vs successful goals, to know which position group made more number of goals. According to the players strengths and weaknesses Coaches can change players position groups to win a match.
